[Music]
all right mystery lovers and people who
don't like to be kept out of the loop
here is the top secret New York island
that you can never visit hey what's up
with that now when most people think
about islands in New York Manhattan
Staten Long Island Ellis or Liberty
Island usually come to mind but New York
City has tons more a total of about 40
islands in fact and among those there's
one that's so confidential that you
can't even visit it mystery worth
solving you think well get comfy because
we're about to take a trip to the hush
hush New York island known as haunt
you'll be surprised by its interesting
history but before we get into all the
juicy details take this moment to
subscribe to our Channel and if you want
to be the first to see all the fun and
informative videos coming out daily on
the bright side of life
be sure to ring the notification bell so
that you don't miss a thing
bouton island is a teeny tiny 100 by 200
foot artificial island located off the
coast of Manhattan its history goes way
back to the 1890s when William Steinway
a businessman civic leader and yes part
of the Steinway piano family decided to
construct - trolley tunnels under the
East River in order to connect Manhattan
to Queens where his company Steinway
village was located all of the waste
coming out of this construction process
started building up on the underwater
reef until it emerged to the surface
this mound of rocks turned into none
other than etat Island unfortunately
William Steinway died before his idea
came to life but the project was
finished with the help of American
financier August Belmont jr. that's why
the legal name of this rock mount is
Belmont Island the island remained
undisturbed and out of the spotlight for
decades that is until 1977 when it was
adopted by the peace meditation at the
United Nations
this organization was founded by Indian
spiritual leader Sri Chinmoy it included
his followers and employees at the UN
headquarters in New York they
unofficially changed the name of the
island to haunt after the former Burmese
diplomat and third secretary-general of
the UN who was a good friend of chamoy
and had died just three years prior to
the islands honorary renaming but even
though the peace Meditation did so much
for Han Thailand making it greener and
erecting a memorial oneness arch they
were still only allowed to visit it a
few times a year
fast forward 27 years and this little at
all took the spotlight yet again it was
during the 2004 Republican National
Convention when local artist and
filmmaker Duke Reilly rode a boat out to
the forbidden place Riley had previously
traveled to a couple of other abandoned
islands within the New York City area
but this time he declared that this one
who taught a sovereign nation he even
hoisted a 21-foot flag on itas
navigation tower all this happened in
the middle of the night but it still
wasn't long before the Coast Guard
apprehended the trespasser they set him
free a bit later though I mean no harm
done right and that was the last
colorful page in the history of atad
Island it's now turned into a protected
sanctuary for migrating birds including
a small colony of beautiful
double-crested cormorant the Steinway
tunnel you know the building project
that created the tiny landmass in the
first place is a really important part
of the New York City subway even today
yeah of course nobody is allowed to
visit the seemingly insignificant yet oh
so fascinating Bhutan Island to this day
so there but you know that's not all
New York has another closed-off island
that's boozing with mystery North
Brother Island just like you Todd is
currently designated as a bird sanctuary
but its history is a lot darker the
island was abandoned up to 1885 when it
became the new location for Riverside
Hass
Bittle Riverside was at first an
isolated Hospital for smallpox patients
but over time expanded and started
accepting sufferers of other types of
highly contagious and deadly diseases
like tuberculosis and typhoid fever
after the Second World War the hospital
became sort of a dormitory for veterans
enrolled in New York colleges once the
post-war housing shortage led up
Riverside was abandoned yet again in the
1950s it was reopened as a drug
treatment center for teen addicts but
that didn't stick long either and the
question of what to do with the island
just kept popping up for some reason the
state of New York decided to make this
island off-limits to the general public
some even believe that North Brother
Island may be haunted because of its
complicated and dark history perhaps
we'll never really know the truth now if
we venture out across the globe
we'll find even more places that are for
one reason or another off-limits for
visitors one prime example is snake
island which is located about ninety
miles off the coast of South Palo as to
why this place is forbidden for travel
well
the name says it all snake island is
home to between 2,000 and 4,000 venomous
snakes
just imagine coming across about five
snakes for every 10 square feet oh boy
if that's not what nightmares are made
of
then I don't know what is the only
people who are allowed to visit the
island from time to time our scientists
and researchers given that they have
plenty of experience when it comes to
snakes but for regular folks like you
and me this journey would probably be a
one-way ticket and that's because the
golden lancehead lives there just one
bite from this Viper can kill a person
within an hour yeah this place won't be
opening its doors to visitors anytime
soon there are other even more
mysterious places out there like Heard
Island ever heard of
Rhode Island you can find it in the
middle of the ocean between Australia
and Antarctica well it's hard to get
there anyway the Australian government
decided not to take any chances and
banned anyone from traveling there so
what's with all the secrecy
the reasoning is way more beautiful than
you think
Hurd Island is home to animals that are
totally unique to this area and the
Australian government wants them to live
in peace without human intervention plus
there are two active volcanoes on the
island along with the tallest mountain
in Australia so what's your opinion on
this is it better to protect such unique
places from people or to open them up
for visitation and tourism sound off in
the comments below but that's still not
the only place that authorities want to
protect for ecological reasons it's also
why Iceland's Surtsey Island is cut off
from visitors Surtsey Island was formed
from a huge volcanic eruption that took
place back in 1963
the eruption lasted for four whole years
allowing the island to grow to a size of
one square mile
since then it's continued to be a place
of interest for volcanologists botanists
and biologists alike these scientists
want to study how plants and animals
colonize this entirely new land so the
decision to keep Surtsey Island as far
from people as possible came almost
instantly everybody understood that
humans can easily destroy the islands
one-of-a-kind ecosystem and this one in
a lifetime chance to study nature so
uniquely would be lost forever new
species simply won't be able to grow if
people were to live there for that
reason only a selected and let's be
honest lucky few are allowed to step on
the island and see its beauty for
themselves and this approach seems to be
working out perfectly UNESCO declared
Surtsey Island a world heritage site not
too long ago so who knows maybe
scientists will stumble across some
seriously revolutionary discoveries
there it's just a bummer that we won't
be able to see a place so different from
anything we've ever known
but hey they're probably right we just
goof it up so if you could visit only
one of these places which one would you
choose
tell us in the comment section below
don't forget to hit the like button and
share this video with your friends if
you found it interesting and for more
Brightside in your life just click
Subscribe and join us see you soon see
it